=pod

=head1 NAME

    vee

=head1 VERSION

=head1 USAGE 

    vee -t "my post title" [-m "check this out f00 bar herp derp" ]

=head2 Batch mode

    cat some_file.txt | vee -b -t "my post title"

=head1 REQUIRED ARGUMENTS

It is recommend to use the I<-t> flag to set the title.

=head1 OPTIONS 

=over 4

=item -b     

Puts vee into batch mode, allowing it to  accept  I<STDIN>  as  the
body of the post. This makes vee useful for creating a web-accessible log index.

=item -B file

Define bottom template; default is I<./vee-bottom.tpl>

=item -c [1-9*] 

Specifiy the number of characters fold allows per line.

=item -d publish_dir

Specify the directory .vee is in; defaults to the present working 
directory as known to `pwd`

=item -f format [groff|fold|none]

Use defined format instead of the default, groff; I<groff>(1), I<fold>(1), 
and I<none> are supported out of the box.

=item -h     

prints help message, then quits.

=item -i I<custom.html>

specifies a custom index file to use.

=item -I     

Forces the index file to be index.html

=item -l     

Edit the lastest post's .raw file directly. Republishes it using
the -r option.

=item -L [1-9*]

Edit the Nth latest, relative to the last post. Last post's
index number is 1.

=item -m message

Specify the entry message at the  commandline,  avoids $EDITOR.
Ignored when used with -b (batch mode).

=item -n     

Lists all entries, newest first, then quits (deprecated in favor
of the I<veels> utility.

=item -o     

Lists all entries, oldest first, then quits (deprecated in favor
of the I<veels> utility.

=item -P     

Forever deletes all .raw files and formatted files that are
associated with all posts listed with C<-p>

=item -p 
Shows what .raw files don't have an entry in $INDEX.

=item -r [1-9*]

Reformats the Nth latests post.

=item -R
Reformats all .raw files; will respect -c

=item -s summary

Places a summary below the title in the $INDEX.

=item -t title

Specify the title at the commandline.

=item -T file

Defines the top template, defaults to ./vee-top.tpl

=item -v     

Prints version information, then quits.

=item -x     

Defines a hook if not using the default, ./vee-pre ;  hook  must
be executable (0755) by effective user.

=back

=head1 DESCRIPTION

C<vee> is a command-line blog tool that is very portable across Unix  systems.  
It provides an interactive as well as a batch interface to maintain a log of entries. 
Formatting is done using a  module  architecture that allows a high degree of customization. 
There are minimal flags and no set up is required.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

=head1 CONFIGURATION AND ENVIRONMENT

=over 4

=item EDITOR

If set in the environment, this is the editor that I<vee> will attempt to use.
The default it I<vi> found in PATH.

=item PREFORMAT_HOOK 

If C<PREFORMAT_HOOK> is defined and points to an executable file that accepts
STDIN and prints to STOUT. It is run immediately before the main formatting
takes place.

This variable must be set directly in I<vee> or in I<.veerc>.

=item POSTFORMAT_HOOK 

B<NOTE: This hook is currently disabled.>

If C<POSTFORMAT_HOOK> is defined and points to an executable file that accepts
STDIN and prints to STOUT. It is run immediately before the main formatting
takes place.

This variable must be set directly in I<vee> or in I<.veerc>.

=item I<.veerc>

Primary configuration file, read after all options are read. Settins
overridable via commandline options.  Use I<-d> to specify a directory in which
to look for I<.veerc>. By default, it looks in `pwd`.

=item I<vee-top.tpl>

If this file exists, it is prepended to the post. Use the I<-T> flag to define
a top template at runtime.

=item I<vee-bottom.tpl>

If this file exists, it is appended to the post. Use the I<-B> flag to define a
top template at runtime.

=item I<vee.index>

The main index. It is kept properly sorted through the use of line numbers
embedded inside of HTML comments. It may be customized, but each line must
contain a number based on the ordering one wishes to maintain during the
addition of a new post link. 

=item .vee/*.raw

These are the main record files of each post; they contain header information
and the original unformatted text.

The utilities I<veecat> is used to query these fields and I<veels> is used to
iterate over them.

=back

=head1 DEPENDENCIES

The idea is that I<vee> can deployed on any minimal Unix-like environment
without the overhead of any additional 3rd-party software tools or libraries.

Certainly these can enhance I<vee>, but the goal is to still have it useful and
functional on bare systems.

=head1 INCOMPATIBILITIES

=head1 BUGS AND LIMITATIONS

The I<sort> tool on OS X is funky and causes some weirdness in some cases.

=head1 AUTHOR

B. Estrade L<estrabd@gmail.com>

=head1 LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT

This has been released under a variety of licenses, but the one that applies
most directly is the C<Do What the F*** You Want>.

=head1 EXAMPLES

=head2 Basic using EDITOR

    $ vee -t "title of my post"

=head2 Basic no EDITOR

In this example, the message body is being specified at the commandline using
I<-m>.

    $ vee -t "title of my post" -m "this is the body of my message"

=head2 Basic batch (no EDITOR)

    $ echo "this is the body of my message" | vee -b -t "title of my post"

This is really useful if you want to log the output of cronjobs or other batch
processes.

=head1 SEE ALSO

I<veels>(1)  - used to iterate over I<*.raw> files

I<veecat>(1)  - used to query specific parts of a I<*.raw> file

I<vee-rebuild>(1)  - rebuilds the I<veeindex> based on the existing I<*.raw>
files.

I<veerc>(5) - the primary method of customizing the environment 

I<veeindex>(5) - the HTML-based listing of posts

=cut
