.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii foo.1
.\"
.TH vee 1 "June 2012" Vee "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
vee \- vee is a zero-conf, cli microblogging tool; does one thing, and does it well. 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vee [-b ] [-t 
.I title
.B ]  
.B ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B vee
is a command-line blog tool that is very portable across Unix systems. It provides an interactive as well as a batch interface to maintain a log of entries. Formatting is done using a module architecture that allows a high degree of customization. There are minimal flags and no set up is required.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP -b
Puts 
.B vee
into 
.I batch 
mode, allowing it to accept 
.I STDIN
as the body of the post. This makes 
.B vee
useful for creating a web-accessible log index.
.IP "-B file"         
Define bottom template; default is ./vee-bottom.tpl       
.IP -c
.I [1-9\d*]
Specifiy the number of characters 
.I fold
allows per line.
.IP "-d publish_dir"
Specify the directory
.I .vee
is in; defaults to the present working directory as known to 
.I `pwd`
.IP "-f format"
Use defined format instead of the default, 
.I groff
; 
.I groff
, 
.I fold
, and 
.I none 
are supported out of the box.
.IP -h
prints help message, then quits.
.IP "-i custom"
specifies a custom index file to use. 
.IP -I
Forces the index file to be
.I index.html
.
.IP -l
Edit the lastest post's 
.I .raw
file directly. Republishes it using the 
.B -r
option.
.IP "-L [1-9\d*]"
Edit the Nth latest, relative to the last post. Last post's index number is 1.
.IP "-m message"
Specify the entry message at the commandline, avoids $EDITOR.  Ignored when used 
with 
.B -b
(batch mode).
.IP -n
Lists all entries, newest first, then quits (deprecated in favor of the
.I veels
utility.
.IP -o
Lists all entries, oldest first, then quits (deprecated in favor of the
.I veels
utility.
.IP -P
Forever deletes all 
.I .raw
files and formatted files that are associated with all posts listed with
.B -p
.
.IP -p
Shows what 
.I .raw
files don't have an entry in $INDEX.
.IP "-r [1-9\d*]"
Reformats the Nth latests post.
.IP -R 
Reformats 
.I all
.I .raw
files; will respect
.B -c
.
.IP "-s summary"
Places a summary below the title in the $INDEX.
.IP "-t title"
Specify the title at the commandline.
.IP "-T file"
Defines the top template, defaults to
.I ./vee-top.tpl
.
.IP -v
Prints version information, then quits.
.IP -x filter
Defines a filter if not using the default,
.I ./vee-pre
; filter must be executable (0755) by effective user.
.SH FILES
.I .veerc 
.RS
The primary configuration file. See
.BR vee (5)
for further details.
.RE
.I ./vee-bottom.tpl
.RS
The default bottom template file.
.BR vee (5)
for further details.
.RE
.I ./vee-top.tpl
.RS
The default top template file.
.BR vee (5)
for further details.
.RE
.I ./vee-pre
.RS
The default pre-filter.
.BR vee (5)
for further details.
.RE
.I ./index.html
.RS
The default index file.
.BR vee (5)
for further details.
.RE
.I ./.vee/
.RS
The storage directory for all .raw and formatted files.
.RE
.I *.raw
.RS
The raw source of all posts before being formatted by
.I fold
, etc.
.BR vee (5)
for further details.
.RE
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.IP ./.veerc 
If non-null the full pathname for an alternate system wide
.IR ~/.veerc .
Overridden by the
.B -c
option.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.SH BUGS
Please report at 
.I https://github.com/estrabd/vee/issues
.SH AUTHOR
B. Estrade <estrabd@gmail.com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR vee-rebuild (1)
.BR veels (1)
.BR veecat (1)
